# **Professional Self-Assessment**

**Collaborating in a Team Environment:**

During my time studying at Southern New Hampshire University collaborating with others in a professional and learning environment were common occurrences. This included constant email chains with professors about coursework and ideas outside of the course but still in the computer science space. Discussion posts were also a great way to receive feedback and collaborate with fellow students. These conversations were kept professional and remained on topic featuring class topics like emerging trends, diagrams and pseudocode presentations that we gave our constructive feedback on to help each other adjust and refine our craft. My capstone course really showed how following best practices and remaining organized and legible with one’s comments can be extremely constructive when it comes time to maintain code with happened during the enhancement section of this course.

**Communicating with Stakeholders:**

CS-499, the computer science capstone course at SNHU enabled me to display my literacy in a multitude of programming syntaxes. Enhancement One specifically had me translate and port an artifact that took user information and generated a contact ID for them over to Python from C++ for the sake of presenting to stakeholders in a manner that was easier to understand. Communication about files is significantly easier when the syntax and other logic is written closer to English, so the shareholders don’t only have comments to go off. There were also courses during my learning journey that were dedicated to functioning in a Scrum team utilizing the Agile methodology and communicating with shareholders was a mainstay that stuck with me as transparency and constant communication are key to a smooth, efficient and successful project.

**Data Structures and Algorithms:**

Enhancement Two featured an artifact that utilized the contact ID from the artifact in Enhancement One and created an array that these new IDs could be stored in. There were also functions that allowed the array to add, update, and delete an ID or correlating information. The only thing missing was a validation function that checked the array for any duplicate contact IDs. The reason behind this enhancement choice was that any duplicate contact ID invalidated the integrity of the array in its entirety. Over the course of my learning career at SNHU I’ve been able to acquire a lot of experience creating, manipulating and doing maintenance on arrays for a variety of different problem statements. Currently I am creating an application that runs a dice game that creates an array for both players and their total scores and have created functions that are used on both.

**Software Engineering and Databases:**

Enhancement Three features a dashboard and database of dogs at an animal shelter. This specific application was created utilizing .ipynb files accessed via Jupyter Notebook and the database was built using MongoDB. The enhancement I performed included optimization of the CRUD construction code and further enhancements when sorting through the database to find the best homes for these dogs based on geographic location. Along with MongoDB experience I also have experience with MySQL databases that include analyzing data, navigating databases and repositories using this language and constructing databases utilizing MySQL also.

**Security:**

Security is something I have delved into recently but have put at the forefront now that I have started learning IT skills such as networking, security, and configuration. These skills are on display specifically in enhancements two and three where I adjust the credentials to sign in with the MongoDB so that they are no longer hard coded. And the validation function in enhancement one further demonstrates my proficiency at enforcing and reinforcing the confidentiality, integrity, and availability triad that individuals specialized within the cybersecurity scene work so hard to maintain.

## **This youtube link showcases [my code review](https://youtu.be/Njj31jSMvbU)!**

## **Enhancement Plan One: Software Design and Engineering:**

The artifact chosen for the Software Design and Engineering Enhancement plan is a contact ID generation program written roughly 6-8 months ago in my learning career here at SNHU. The reason behind adding this artifact to my ePortfolio is to show that I can create efficient but complex programs that align with best practices and standards while also being able to translate this file between languages without any errors. The artifact as improved through the translation process from java to python making the file itself easier to read, explain, and present to those with less software inclined knowledge due to its closer relationship with the English language. 

The outcomes this plan aligned with have been met through this process and then some. There are comments and processes I went through during the coding process that were security oriented and was something I did not think of at first but blossomed during development. The rest of the outcomes (1,3,4) were also completed during this process. Translating this document really tested my knowledge of both languages considering I have not looked at a python file in over six months. I have been spending a lot of time do ideological and theoretical work recently so I have not had a lot of time to work on or really practice syntax or development in general so this was a really nice way of getting back in the swing of things as a developer.

### **Enhancement Plane One Code [Before](https://github.com/ThomasBagnardi/ePortfolio/blob/main/Contact%20(1).java)/[After](https://github.com/ThomasBagnardi/ePortfolio/blob/main/Contact.py)!**

## **Enhancement Plan Two: Algorithms and Data Structures**

This artifact from CS-320 was created roughly six to eight months ago. The purpose was to store each generated contact from the artifact used in the Software and Design section into an array list with separate functions to perform maintenance on the array list. This artifact was selected for inclusion in my ePortfolio because maintaining arrays specifically those with confidential information is a significant job within our industry. The artifact was improved with the addition of the test case that validates and checks each contact within the array list for any unwanted duplication, essentially creating a security check for unwanted contacts or possible infiltration routes. This artifact showcases my ability to not only create arrays storing information but also creating functions to maintain the CIA security triad and perform routine maintenance on a scalable product. 
	
The course outcomes for this specific enhancement plan were outcomes three, four, and five. The enhanced artifact displays used intellectual tools and innovative techniques to solve a complex problem, while also managing trade-offs and enforcing a cybersecurity mindset. The trade-off talked about was the inclusion of the duplication test. This test was included in the case of other vulnerabilities that could allow for duplicate contacts to be injected within the array list. The addition of the test function and the testing/debugging tools were a big part of the test case implementation. Finally, the addition of the test function was a decision made with security and protection at the forefront. 
	
During the process of enhancing and modifying this artifact I really learned more about IDE configuration and developing from a security perspective while keeping functionality in mind. Some challenges included not having my IDE configured to compile java or debug it, which was something that I had to modify and tweak to make this enhancement possible. I also came across some problems initializing and then properly implementing the function. I spent the majority of the week researching this problem and eventually coming up with the solution that is seen in the file.

### **Enhancement Plan Two Code [Before](https://github.com/ThomasBagnardi/ePortfolio/blob/main/ContactService%20(1).java)/[After](https://github.com/ThomasBagnardi/ePortfolio/blob/main/ContactService(duplicateCheck).java)!**

## **Enhancement Plan Three: Databases:**

The artifact I chose for enhancement plan three is a CRUD based application that ties into a database that sorts through an animal shelter to find the most suitable home for dogs. This specific artifact was created roughly 10-12 months ago and required the Jupyter Notebook extension to function.

I decided to include this artifact in my ePortfolio because databases are what I consider my weakest skillset when it comes to software development. While I kept a lot of the work within the Jupyter Notebook itself I was able to enhance the CRUD file to work more efficiently and adjusted the credentials for database access to no longer be hardcoded for security purposes. This enhancement showed me that I have come a long way in developing databases specifically when it comes to putting security at the forefront and making the base of the application more efficient. 

The course outcomes I originally set out to meet were outcomes 3, 4, and 5. Outcome three was a big one for me because the trade-off I came to was that running the application outside of Jupyter Notebook would negatively impact on the overall integrity of the system, so I decided to keep the files within the Notebook framework. This enhancement aligned with outcome four in a very interesting way that I did not expect when initially going over the enhancement plan. As it turns out, there is no Jupyter Notebook extension for Visual Studio. This meant that I had to install and configure Visual Studio Code with the proper Python and Jupyter Notebook extensions to make this entire enhancement plan possible. Another big thing I utilized during this enhancement was the AI tools provided by GitHub. This CoPilot helped me decipher error codes and recommend solutions to errors without giving me direct lines of code. I found this tool to be extremely helpful because the constructive feedback provided without an actual code reference allowed me to formulate my own solutions without outside interference. Finally, adding the proper imports to enable the login information to not be hardcoded was the biggest piece of this enhancement that aligned with outcome five. Keeping login credentials confidential is extremely important and helps keep the application in line with the CIA Triad.

### **Enhancement Plan Three Code [Part 1 Before](https://github.com/ThomasBagnardi/ePortfolio/blob/main/ProjectTwoDashboard.ipynb), [Part 2 Before](https://github.com/ThomasBagnardi/ePortfolio/blob/main/animalShelter.py)/[Part 1 After](https://github.com/ThomasBagnardi/ePortfolio/blob/main/ProjectTwoDashboard(adjusted).ipynb), [Part 2 After](https://github.com/ThomasBagnardi/ePortfolio/blob/main/animalShelter(adjusted).py)**
